# mdthesis

Template files for creating a PhD thesis in the markdown format for use with quarto.

## Getting Started
You must have Quarto installed on your system to build the thesis. You can do so by following the instructions at https://quarto.org/docs/get-started/

Download the files from this repository, and from a terminal working in that directory, run the command:

```
quarto render
```

By default, this will output an html web site, a PDF, and a docx file in the `./_book/` folder.

## Customizing
Project settings are included in `./_quarto.yml`. Here you can change the title, author, date, and output format options.

Under `book > chapters`, you can select other markdown or ipynb files to include as a chapter in the final document. These are `.qmd` (Quarto Markdown) files by default, but it is also possible to use other file types.

Front matter for the PDF is set in `./before-body.tex`. For example, a declaration, abstract, acknowledgements, and changes to the title page will go in this file.

Content for the introductory chapter goes into `./index.qmd`. This will show up in the home page of the web site.

Content for the thesis goes in the individual chapter files in the `./text/` folder.

## Figures
Figures can be included as static image files *or* as embedded code, including Python code. See the example in `./text/workchapter-1.qmd`, for example.

## References
It is possible to include references from a bibtex file, such as one generated by a citation manager. See the documentation for more information.

Replace `./bibliography.bib` with your own file.

## Further Information
Many more aspects of the outputted book can be customized. For more information, please see the original Quarto documentation.